# 2. Word Count Challenge!

## Description
So for this particular challenge I decided to employ the word count features that google has all in vanilla javascript. Since I was looking to google docs for inspiration I tested all of my algorithm results to the word counter of google docs and they were exactly the same for every count available on their app.

## Dependancies
None! this was done purely in vanilla Javascript. I chose to do this as to take the most organic programattic approach I could take. There are plenty of frameworks out there that would just leave it to me to plug in the algos but I enjoyed building it out myself.

## How to start
Simply download the repository, once in the folder of the repository open the index.html file in your browser and it should run.
Note - The css was tested on chrome, other browsers may or may not have variant styling issues.

## Project MVP - As requested by the take home coding challenge
* Character Count - returns length of all characters using a simple length property.
* Word Count - word count takes the body of text and seperates them by any character that is not alpha-numeric or a hyphen/apostrophe since both can be used to complete words in the english language, all using a regular expression
* Sentence Count - regular expression once again however this time i targeted definitive sentence enders such as .!? and new line breaks.
* Paragraph Count - regular expression splitting the body of text specifically by new line breaks
* Bigrams - This algorithm first strips all white spaces and line breaks and any character that does not belong in a defined word. Then it loops through the newly formed array and creates bigram pairs all converted to lowercase in order to be stored into an object as a key value pair along with a count of frequency. Lastly it loops through once more to create an array of objects containing each pair and frequency of appearance.

## Post MVP - Everything I programmed to work beyond MVP
* Character count no whitespaces - I tried to make this as close as possible to the google doc app, which also has a character count excluding white spaces, so i programmed it as well using a simple regular expression to seperate the letters by white space and join them back to get the length.
* Modal for bigram display - the modal itself houses a sorting drop down menu, total number of bigram counts, and every single bigram generated from the current body of text. When the modal is closed out, the html is cleared. If the user has not input at least 2 words, the modal will display the message "Type in at least two words to begin!".
* Bigram sort - I added the ability to sort the list of bigrams generated by descending or ascending order. I programmed it in the form of a dropdown menu with sort options. This comes in handy for when trying to identify the most used bigrams from the body of text.
* Highlighted text - I programmed the app to be able to identify what is currently being highlighted by the user and update the counts with the highlighted text. When the text is highlighted, the words "Highlighted" will appear over the statistics indicating that the current numbers are derived from the selected text and not the body as a whole.

## Authors
Joshua Aponte (Me)

## Acknowledgements
* Any additional research outside of my existing knowledge was done by reviewing MDN Api documents.

## Final updates I would implement in the future
* Dropdown menu in the modal to be refreshed on closing of modal back to none sorting option.
* Edit event listeners to allow the Generate Bigrams button to display bigrams for highlighted text.
* Pagination of textarea, once past a certain character limit a new page to be created where the input continues and the word counts are retained.
* CSS design to be a bit more colorful and include dark mode.
